Debugging dags guide (#293)
astronomer/airflow-guides: guides/debugging-dags.md

- If you see an error that the scheduler is not running like below, check the scheduler logs to see if something in the DAG file is causing the scheduler to crash (if you are using the Astronomer CLI, run `astro dev logs --scheduler`). Then try restarting.

    ![No Scheduler](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/debugging-dags/scheduler_not_running.png)

If you have this issue when working from an Astronomer Airflow deployment, there are a few additional things you can check:

- Ensure your Dockerfile Runtime/Astronomer Certified version matches the Airflow version of your deployment. A mismatch here can cause DAGs not to show up after they've been deployed.
- For Astronomer Certified images, ensure you are using the `onbuild` image (e.g. `FROM quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.2.2-buster-onbuild`). Images without `onbuild` will not bundle files in the `dags/` folder when deployed.
- Ensure the permissions on your local files aren't too [locked down](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/dags-arent-showing-up-in-my-astronomer-deployment-but-i-see-them-locally/146). 

> ### Installing Supporting Packages

Author: I wanted this section to be broader than just dependency conflicts, because we've gotten feedback that knowing how to install supporting packages and check that they are present is confusing. So I left the title as is, but happy to chat more about this if you think it doesn't make sense.

> ### Installing Supporting Packages

Reviewer: I think it's okay to keep it broader, but I would try to frame the title as a troubleshooting topic. Installing Supporting Packages sounds like its own guide, whereas this topic is specifically about how that process can go awry. This would also make it more consistent with the current headers

How you install supporting Python or OS packages will depend on your Airflow setup. If you are working with an [Astronomer project](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/develop/cli-quickstart#step-3-initialize-an-airflow-project), you can add them to your `requirements.txt` and `packages.txt` files respectively, and they will be automatically installed when your Docker image builds when you deploy or start the project locally.

One thing to watch out for, especially with Python packages, is dependency conflicts. If you are running Airflow using Docker, and conflicts will cause errors when you build your image. With the Astronomer CLI, errors and warnings will be printed in your terminal when you run `astro dev start`, and you may see import errors for your DAGs in the Airflow UI if packages failed to install. In general, all packages you install should be available in your scheduler pod. You can double check they were installed successfully by exec'ing into your scheduler pod as described [here](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/develop/customize-image#add-python-and-os-level-packages).

> If you do have package conflicts that can't be resolved, consider splitting your DAGs into multiple Airflow deployments.

Author: Actually having different DAGs run in different Airflow deployments. So instead of having one mono-Airflow, you have different Airflows that support different dependencies (super common with Astronomer customers)

> If you do have package conflicts that can't be resolved, consider splitting your DAGs into multiple Airflow deployments.

Reviewer: Updated my suggestion in the previous comment, I think we should explicitly state how those DAGs should be split up even though it might seem obvious

- In case it was a one-off issue, try rerunning the task by [clearing the task instance](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/rerunning-dags#rerunning-tasks) and see if the logs show up the second time.
- Increase your `log_fetch_timeout_sec` parameter to greater than the 5 second default. This parameter controls how long the webserver will wait for the initial handshake when fetching logs from the worker machines, and having extra time here can sometimes resolve issues.
- Increase the resources available to your workers (if using the Celery executor) or scheduler (if using the local executor).
- If you're using the Kubernetes executor, which spins up a separate pod for each task, sometimes if the task fails very quickly (e.g. in less than 15 or so seconds) the pod will be spun down before the webserver has a chance to collect the logs from the pod. If possible, you can try building in some wait time to your task depending on which operator you're using. If that isn't possible, try to diagnose what could be causing a near-immediate failure in your task. This is often related to either lack of resources (try increasing CPU/memory for the task), or an error in the task configuration.

> - If you're looking at historical task failures, ensure that your logs are retained long enough. For example, the default log retention period on Astronomer is 15 days, so any logs prior to that will not be stored.

Author: Only for Enterprise, so figured that was too specific to link to for a guide. In general, this will depend on how the Airflow admins set up their environment.

- If none of the above works, try checking your scheduler and webserver logs for any errors that might indicate why your task logs aren't showing up.

> ## Addressing Failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Recovering from Failures
```

This seems more appropriate? We discuss addressing failures in the previous section, and this content seems to be more about how to move on after the failure.

> Once you have identified the cause of any failures in your tasks, you can begin to address them. If you've made any changes to your code, make sure to redeploy (if applicable), and check the Code View in the Airflow UI to make sure your changes have been picked up by Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have identified the cause of any failures in your tasks, you can begin to address them. If you've made any changes to your code, make sure to redeploy (if applicable) and check the Code View in the Airflow UI to make sure that your changes have been picked up by Airflow.
```

> If you want to rerun your full DAG or certain tasks after making changes, you can easily do so with Airflow. Check out [this guide](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/rerunning-dags#rerunning-tasks) for details on how to rerun and apply backfills or catchups. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to rerun your whole DAG or specific tasks after making changes, you can easily do so with Airflow. Check out [this guide](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/rerunning-dags#rerunning-tasks) for details on how to rerun and apply backfills or catchups. 
```

> How to address specific failures will depend heavily on the hook/operator/sensor used, and the use case. However, Airflow connections are an area that consistently cause issues in early DAG development, so we talk about those in more depth below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to address specific failures will depend heavily on the hook/operator/sensor used, as well as the use case. However, Airflow connections are an area that consistently cause issues in early DAG development, so we talk about those in more depth below.
```

> ### Connections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connection Troubleshooting
```

Reviewer: Is there a specific type of error that people can look out for in relation to connections? This content feels like it belongs under an `##` alongside the other possible errors. If possible, we should move this up in the doc and include info on how to tell when a broken connection is the problem, then reword "Addressing Failures" to be more conclusive.

Author: Yeah I'm okay with moving it up. I'll add some wording on identifying when a connection is the problem, but there isn't a specific error. Unfortunately connection errors can be really vague and vary widely

Typically, Airflow connections are needed for Airflow to talk to any external system. Most hooks and operators will expect a connection parameter to be defined. Improperly defined connections are one of the most common issues Airflow users have to debug when first working with their DAGs. Below are some tips and tricks for getting them to work:

- Check out the Airflow [managing connections documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) to get familiar with how connections work.

> - Most hooks and operators will use the `default` connection of the correct type. You can change the `default` connection to use your connection details, or define a new connection with a different name and pass that to the hook/operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Most hooks and operators will use the `default` connection of the correct type. You can change the `default` connection to use your connection details or define a new connection with a different name and pass that to the hook/operator.
```

- Increase the resources available to your workers (if using the Celery executor) or scheduler (if using the local executor).
- If you're using the Kubernetes executor and a task fails very quickly (e.g. in less than 15 or so seconds), the pod running the task spins down before the webserver has a chance to collect the logs from the pod. If possible, you can try building in some wait time to your task depending on which operator you're using. If that isn't possible, try to diagnose what could be causing a near-immediate failure in your task. This is often related to either lack of resources (try increasing CPU/memory for the task) or an error in the task configuration.
- If you're looking at historical task failures, ensure that your logs are retained long enough. For example, the default log retention period on Astronomer is 15 days, so any logs prior to that will not be stored.
- If none of the above works, try checking your scheduler and webserver logs for any errors that might indicate why your task logs aren't showing up.

## Connection Troubleshooting

> Typically, Airflow connections are needed for Airflow to talk to any external system. Most hooks and operators will expect a connection parameter to be defined. Improperly defined connections are one of the most common issues Airflow users have to debug when first working with their DAGs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, Airflow connections are needed for Airflow to talk to any external system. Most hooks and operators expect a defined connection parameter. Because of this, improperly defined connections are one of the most common issues Airflow users have to debug when first working with their DAGs. 
```

> While the specific error associated with a poorly defined connection can vary widely, you will typically see a message with "connection" in the task logs. If you haven't defined a connection, you'll see a message like `'connection_abc' is not defined`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the specific error associated with a poorly defined connection can vary widely, you will typically see a message with "connection" in your task logs. If you haven't defined a connection, you'll see a message like `'connection_abc' is not defined`. 
```

Below are some general tips and tricks for getting them connections work:

- Check out the Airflow [managing connections documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) to get familiar with how connections work.
- Most hooks and operators will use the `default` connection of the correct type. You can change the `default` connection to use your connection details or define a new connection with a different name and pass that to the hook/operator.
- Consider upgrading to Airflow 2.2 so you can use the test connections feature in the UI or API. This will save you having to run your full DAG to make sure the connection works.

>     ![Test Connections](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/debugging-dags/test_connections.png)

Reviewer: Might need newlines between the image link, not sure tho

Author: Ok yeah, see your point on the supporting packages title. Will update.

And I wondered that about the image link, but it passed the markdown lint and is rendering fine on my local preview so...?....May add them anyway just to be safe :)

- Every hook/operator will have its own way of using a connection, and it can sometimes be tricky to figure out what parameters are needed. The [Astronomer Registry](https://registry.astronomer.io/) can be a great resource for this: many hooks and operators have documentation there on what is required for a connection.
- You can define connections using Airflow environment variables instead of adding them in the UI. Take care to not end up with the same connection defined in multiple places. If you do, the environment variable will take precedence.

## Recovering from Failures

Once you have identified the cause of any failures in your tasks, you can begin to address them. If you've made any changes to your code, make sure to redeploy (if applicable) and check the Code View in the Airflow UI to make sure that your changes have been picked up by Airflow.

If you want to rerun your whole DAG or specific tasks after making changes, you can easily do so with Airflow. Check out [this guide](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/rerunning-dags#rerunning-tasks) for details on how to rerun and apply backfills or catchups. 

> How to address specific failures will depend heavily on the hook/operator/sensor used, as well as the use case. The sections above should help you through the most commonly encountered pitfalls that beginners face. For help with more complex issues, consider joining the [Apache Airflow Slack](https://airflow.apache.org/community/), or [reach out to Astronomer](https://www.astronomer.io/get-astronomer/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to address specific failures will depend heavily on the hook/operator/sensor used, as well as the use case. The sections above should help you through the most commonly encountered pitfalls that beginners face. For help with more complex issues, consider joining the [Apache Airflow Slack](https://airflow.apache.org/community/) or [reach out to Astronomer](https://www.astronomer.io/get-astronomer/).
```

## Tasks Aren't Running

In this scenario, your DAG is visible in the Airflow UI, but your tasks don't run when you trigger the DAG. This is a commonly encountered issue in Airflow, and the causes can be very simple or complex. Below are some debugging steps that can resolve the most common scenarios:

- Make sure your DAG is toggled to `Unpaused`. If your DAG is paused when you trigger it, the tasks will not run. 

    ![Paused DAG](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/debugging-dags/paused_dag.png)

    DAGs are deployed paused by default, but you can change this behavior by setting `dags_are_paused_at_creation=False` in your Airflow config (if you do this, be aware of the `catchup` parameter in your DAGs).

    > Note: As of Airflow 2.2, paused DAGs will be unpaused automatically if you manually trigger them.

> - Ensure your DAG has a start date that is in the past. If your start date is in the future, triggering the DAG results a "successful" DAG run even though no tasks ran.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a note about start date being in past and execution date being in the future because of the data interval size, so unpausing a DAG won't start a run unless both are in the past. I think there is still general confusion around execution date.

Author: Good call, added a note about that and linked out to our new scheduling guide that covers data intervals and other scheduling concepts.
